Added CTS health endpoint docs (#12939)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/nia/api/health.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul-Terraform-Sync Health API
description: >-
  Consul-Terraform-Sync Health API
---

# Health

> The `/health` endpoints provide information on the health of a running Consul-Terraform-Sync (CTS) instance.

Author: Should I replace `instance` with `service` ?

Reviewer: I guess I lean slightly more towards "instance" but only because when I search our docs for "CTS instance" there are two results. Searching for "CTS service" didn't return any precedents. Open to what others think

Reviewer 2: I also lean towards instance because I think we'll eventually start referring to them as instances when HA is introduced. 

This is a side note too, but maybe this should be "endpoint" (singular).

> The `/health` endpoints provide information on the health of a running Consul-Terraform-Sync (CTS) instance.

Author: ```suggestion
The `/health` endpoint provide health information about running instances of Consul-Terraform-Sync (CTS).
```

adding in Melissa's suggestion of having it be singular `endpoint`

## Get Health

This endpoint returns the health of CTS.

| Method | Path                | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/health` | `application/json` |

#### Response Statuses

| Status | Reason                                               |
| ------ | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| 200    | CTS is healthy                                       |

> | 503    | CTS is unhealthy                                     |

Author: We currently do this for our other endpoints in the docs, should we leave it for now to make it consistent and refactor in a separate PR?

#### Response Fields

| Name         | Type   | Description                                                                        |
| ------------ | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `request_id` | string | The ID of the request. Used for auditing and debugging purposes.                   |

> #### Example: Getting the health of CTS
> 
> Request:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Example

The following request makes a `GET` call to the `health` endpoint:
```suggestion

```shell-session
$ curl --request GET \
  localhost:8558/v1/health
```

> Response:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following response shows the request ID, indicating that CTS is healthy:

```
I don't know if this statement is true. it's not clear what a healthy response might look like, especially because the example response does not include the `200` code we said was indicative of a healthy CTS.
